[improve][docs] Get started locally (#17475)
apache/pulsar: site2/docs/getting-started-standalone.md

---
id: getting-started-standalone
title: Run a standalone Pulsar cluster locally
sidebar_label: "Run Pulsar locally"
---

For local development and testing, you can run Pulsar in standalone mode on your machine. The standalone mode runs all components inside a single Java Virtual Machine (JVM) process.

:::tip

If you're looking to run a full production Pulsar installation, see the [Deploying a Pulsar instance](deploy-bare-metal.md) guide.

:::

## Prerequisites

- JRE (64-bit). Different Pulsar versions rely on different JRE versions. For how to choose the JRE version, see [Pulsar Runtime Java Version Recommendation](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/blob/master/README.md#pulsar-runtime-java-version-recommendation).

## Step 1. Download Pulsar distribution

Download the official Apache Pulsar distribution:

```bash
wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/pulsar/pulsar-@pulsar:version@/apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@-bin.tar.gz
```

Once downloaded, unpack the tar file:

```bash
tar xvfz apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@-bin.tar.gz
```

> For the rest of this quickstart we'll run commands from the root of the distribution folder, so switch to it:

Reviewer: Can you check all occurrences of "we"? (I only comment on one place)

Author: What do you mean by `check all occurrences of "we"`? Shall I change them or keep it consistent?

> For the rest of this quickstart we'll run commands from the root of the distribution folder, so switch to it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switch to the root directory of the distribution folder: 
```

Same comment: https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17475#discussion_r963209080
Avoid the first-person pronouns (I and we) in technical writing. 
Optionally, we can make this sentence more concise.

Author: Thanks for your explanation. Updating...

Author: Updated.

```bash
cd apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@
```

List the contents by executing:

```bash
ls -1F
```

You may want to note that:

> | Directory     | Contains                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Directory     | Description                                                                                           |
```
Use nouns in parallel

Author: Resolved.

---
id: getting-started-standalone
title: Set up a standalone Pulsar locally
title: Run a standalone Pulsar cluster locally
sidebar_label: "Run Pulsar locally"
---

For local development and testing, you can run Pulsar in standalone mode on your machine. The standalone mode includes a Pulsar broker, the necessary [RocksDB](http://rocksdb.org/) and BookKeeper components running inside of a single Java Virtual Machine (JVM) process.

> **Pulsar in production?**  
> If you're looking to run a full production Pulsar installation, see the [Deploying a Pulsar instance](deploy-bare-metal.md) guide.

## Install Pulsar standalone

This tutorial guides you through every step of installing Pulsar locally.

### System requirements

Currently, Pulsar is available for 64-bit **macOS**, **Linux**, and **Windows**. To use Pulsar, you need to install 64-bit JRE/JDK.

> For the runtime Java version, see [Pulsar Runtime Java Version Recommendation](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/blob/master/README.md#pulsar-runtime-java-version-recommendation) according to your target Pulsar version.

Reviewer 2: I think the Java version requirement is also important in this doc. Are there other places in the documentation where the java version is specified?

Author: You're right. I should revert changes to this info.

Author: Updated at e486f28cf9064570a628170d1fdd5a5bfd83124a. Although, I think we should inline the version instead of jumping to GitHub README. But I don't have a clear idea of this improvement. Can do it as a follow-up.

Reviewer 2: We can just tell the user to use Java version 17 for this quickstart guide. And junmp to the GitHub README for more detail.

Author: Yep. Let me think of it for a bit. This can be affected when it comes to versioned docs. I'd prefer to write information _just_ for the current version, and when the content is archived to be a historical version, it still holds. But we have a complex site building setup so I must think of it for a bit, lol.

---
id: getting-started-standalone
title: Run a standalone Pulsar cluster locally
sidebar_label: "Run Pulsar locally"
---

For local development and testing, you can run Pulsar in standalone mode on your machine. The standalone mode runs all components inside a single Java Virtual Machine (JVM) process.

:::tip

If you're looking to run a full production Pulsar installation, see the [Deploying a Pulsar instance](deploy-bare-metal.md) guide.

> 

Author: This is not true if you run the nightly (master or the unreleased 2.11.0) version. Since I'm modifying the "next" version, I don't mention it.

> 

Author: Here's another potential troubleshooting if running on M1. But it's new content and I'd like to do it in a follow-up. The current patch is large enough to review.

:::

## Prerequisites

> Nothing more than a 64-bit JRE is required to run a standalone Pulsar cluster. For the required JRE version, see [Pulsar Runtime Java Version Recommendation](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/blob/master/README.md#pulsar-runtime-java-version-recommendation) according to your target Pulsar version.

Author: Good point. Committed.

> ## Download Pulsar distribution

Author: Agree to add `Step xx` prefix. Keep the current headings level.

Download the official Apache Pulsar distribution:

```bash
wget https://archive.apache.org/dist/pulsar/pulsar-@pulsar:version@/apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@-bin.tar.gz
```

Once downloaded, unpack the tar file:

```bash
tar xvfz apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@-bin.tar.gz
```

For the rest of this quickstart we'll run commands from the root of the distribution folder, so switch to it:

```bash
cd apache-pulsar-@pulsar:version@
```

> ## Browse Pulsar distribution

Author: Make sense.

List the contents by executing:

```bash
ls -1F
```

You will see it layouts as:

```text
LICENSE
NOTICE
README
bin/
conf/
examples/
instances/
lib/
licenses/
```

You may want to note that:

* `bin` directory contains the [`pulsar`](reference-cli-tools.md#pulsar) entry point script, and many other command-line tools.
* `conf` directory contains configuration files, including `broker.conf`.
* `lib` directory contains JARs used by Pulsar.
* `examples` directory contains [Pulsar Functions](functions-overview.md) examples.
* `instances` directory artifacts for [Pulsar Functions](functions-overview.md).

> 

Author: Adopt method 1.

## Start the Pulsar standalone cluster

Run this command to start a standalone Pulsar cluster:

```bash
bin/pulsar standalone
```

> By default, the standalone mode runs a RocksDB instance for metadat storage. If you'd prefer to start a cluster with standalone ZooKeeper server, set `PULSAR_STANDALONE_USE_ZOOKEEPER` to 1:

Reviewer: The rest of this guide does not talk about "RocksDB" and "ZooKeeper" anymore. Why do we mention them here? Do users care about / want to know this info at this point? Are there any other places where we can put this useful info to?

> By default, the standalone mode runs a RocksDB instance for metadat storage. If you'd prefer to start a cluster with standalone ZooKeeper server, set `PULSAR_STANDALONE_USE_ZOOKEEPER` to 1:

Author: You're right that we can omit the ZooKeeper env var here. It can be a FAQ on a dedicated page later. Also, Pulsar SQL requires to run with `PULSAR_STANDALONE_USE_ZOOKEEPER=1` but we need only document this there.

> By default, the standalone mode runs a RocksDB instance for metadat storage. If you'd prefer to start a cluster with standalone ZooKeeper server, set `PULSAR_STANDALONE_USE_ZOOKEEPER` to 1:

Author: Removed.

```bash
PULSAR_STANDALONE_USE_ZOOKEEPER=1 bin/pulsar standalone
```

These directories are created once you started the Pulsar cluster.

* `data` directory stores all data created by BookKeeper and RocksDB.
* `logs` directory contains all server-side logs.

## Create a topic

> Pulsar stores messages in topics. It's good practice to explicitly create them before using them, even if Pulsar can automagically create them when referenced.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pulsar stores messages in topics. It's good practice to explicitly create them before using them, even if Pulsar can automatically create them when referenced.
```
Suggest clarifying the first `them`. Otherwise, users may confuse whether it's talking about messages or topics.

Author: Updated at https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/17475/commits/79aad25a91777831c7ed0d63375fe633d51c1525

> Pulsar stores messages in topics. It's good practice to explicitly create them before using them, even if Pulsar can automagically create them when referenced.

Author: Committed.

> Run this command to create a new topic into which we'll write and read some test messages:

Author: Committed.

```bash

> bin/pulsar-admin topics create persistent://public/default/quickstart

Author: Make sense. Updated.

```

## Write messages to the topic

You can use the `pulsar` command line tool to write messages to a topic. This is useful for experimentation, but in practice you'll use the Producer API in your application code, or Pulsar IO connectors for pulling data in from other systems to Pulsar.

Run this command to produce a message:

```bash
bin/pulsar-client produce quickstart --messages 'Hello Pulsar!'
```

## Read messages from the topic

Now that we've written message to the topic, we'll read those messages back.

Run this command to launch the consumer:

```bash

> bin/pulsar-client consume quickstart -s 'first-subscription' -p Earliest -n 0

Reviewer: Can we show different examples here? Reasons:

- Some users do not need complicated info since they just want to have the quickest start.

- Some users want to learn a litte more.

eg.

- This example demonstrates how to consume one message.

```
bin/pulsar-client consume topic1 -s 'subscription1'
```
- This example demonstrates how to consume more messages.

```
bin/pulsar-client consume topic1 -s 'subscription1' -p Earliest -n 0
```

Author: ```
bin/pulsar-client consume topic1 -s 'subscription1'
```

consumes only one message from the latest. It's hard to write a simple demo. I'd say `bin/pulsar-client consume topic1 -s 'subscription1' -p Earliest -n 0` this is the relative simple example :)

```

> Earliest means consuming from the earliest **unconsumed** message. `-n` configures the number of messages to consume, 0 means to consume forever.

Reviewer: Suggest adding the link https://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-client/ for more reference

Author: Current https://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-client/ doesn't have a good landing page. Users can be confused if they're redirected to such a page:

<img width="1728" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/18818196/188557570-bc1fcb91-f96b-4b27-bd90-76107ff7a9c3.png">

Once we can properly direct to the inner page or have a clear landing page, we can add a link here.

As before, this is useful for trialling things on the command line, but in practice you'll use the Consumer API in your application code, or Pulsar IO connectors for reading data from Pulsar to push to other systems.

You'll see the messages that you produce in the previous step:

```text
----- got message -----
key:[null], properties:[], content:Hello Pulsar!
```

## Write some more messages

Leave the consume command from the previous step running. If you've already closed it, just re-run it.

Now open a new terminal window and produce more messages, the default message separator is `,`:

```bash
bin/pulsar-client produce quickstart --messages "$(seq -s, -f 'Message NO.%g' -t '\n' 1 10)"
```

Note how they are displayed almost instantaneously in the consumer terminal.

## Stop the Pulsar cluster

> Once you've finished you can shut down the Pulsar cluster. Press **Ctrl-C** in the terminal window in which you started the cluster.

Reviewer: Control + C?

Author: Ctrl-C and Ctrl+C read the same from a developer's perspective. No need to change.
